Okay, up on the screen, I have the
official Spring Boot documentation for
Externalized Configuration. That's really
what we've been looking at with the
different properties and how we have
been setting the properties and this
shows you a hierarchy of the properties
and how they get sourced into your
Spring Boot Application. So number 17
down there, Default properties using
Spring application set default
properties, that is the lowest one on the
list of how things get picked up. So that
that's going to get overridden by
everything else. So if you look at number
1, that's going to take precedence over
everything while number 17 gets
overridden by everything. So important
distinction to make and you do have a
number of options when we're setting
properties within the Spring environment, the external properties. And we saw there
we started off with number 16 using
PropertySource. I was pretty low on the
pole and then we can have things
property set inside of our our jar or
outside of our jar so number 15 is
properties packaged inside of our jar
and that's going to be looking at dot
properties and yaml variants. So it's
important to realize as we move up and
down the hierarchy when we have the
option of dot properties or that yml for
yaml that they are treated equally. So
you are able to set properties outside
your package jar in a directory. I forget
that exact directory at the time, but that's
something that's inside the Spring
documentation here and then on 12
and 13, you can see how it's
working along the line .So things
packaged inside your jar with the dash
profile is going to override that. We
just saw that in action a little bit ago
where the profile specific properties
were becoming preferred over the other
ones. And then if you look at 9 and
10 that's where your environment
variables are going to come into play
and then going up further the
servlet contacts is going to get
brought in
play. I didn't show you, you can pass in a
Spring application JSON and this is
pretty high up on the list to override
specific properties. And then finally
number 4 there, Command line arguments. So when you start up the application, if you
pass in a property via the command line,
that is going to be pretty high up the
list. And then higher up but 2 and
3, these are going to be, actually 1,
2 and 3. These all evolve around
testing. So your tests are going to
override when you're doing unit testing. They will override any of your baseline
properties. So it's important to
understand how this hierarchy works. I
will include a link to this
documentation inside the course notes
for this lecture but what I want
you to think about here is how these
come into play. This gives you a very
very versatile tool set. I've used a lot
of these in different situations as you
migrate through different environments.
This becomes very very handy. Typically
what you'll see is your baseline,
your development stuff is going to
probably be inside your jar. I don't see
a lot of stuff outside your jar but
there are Operating environments where
you do package things, your property
files outside the jar. And then the most
frequently I see is using Operating
system environment variables. That is a
very, very handy way to override your
property files when you are migrating
from development to QA and then on to
production. So the environment variables
is very, very common used in production. The Spring application JSON, I
don't see much use of that. I'm sure it's
used out there quite a bit but I don't
see a lot of that and then the top three
there for testing, we're going to have a
whole section the course on testing and
we will definitely be looking at that.
But the main takeaway, I want you to have
from this to understand as I work
through this whole section on properties,
we saw a lot of this in action. This is
the official documentation from Spring
as to who overrides what and
it's important to realize that there is
a hierarchy here and how properties get
overridden.